# Network-Traffic-Classification-Techniques-and-Comparative-Analysis-Using-ML-Algorithms
Network Traffic classification has received growing attention over the last years. In the area of networking, it is very essential to know what type of applications flow through the network for the performance of certain tasks. Within the community of the internet, it may be essential to recognize what type of programs are flowing via the networks to execute particular activities. 

Network traffic classification sees its main usage among ISPs (Internet Service Providers) to analyze the characteristics required to design the network, and to determine the qualities needed to construct a connection, which in turn influences the cable network's current effectiveness and hence affects the overall performance of a network. 

There are various techniques adopted to classify internet traffic like Port-based, PayLoad based, Stream, Bandwidth, and Machine Learning based, all of which have their pros and cons. The most common technique used these days by many researchers is Machine Learning (ML) technique which results in giving higher accuracy when compared to others.

In this project,the network traffic classification techniques are discussed step by step, and a real-time internet dataset is developed using the network traffic capture tool Wireshark.The traffic is collected grom an Android and an IOS device.The machine learning classifiers CART DECISION TREE, NAIVE BAYES and SUPPORT VECTOR MACHINE  are then employed on the networking data set and the results are observed and compared. For the implementation of the Machine learning algorithms, the python sklearn library is used along with pandas and NumPy modules.For the purpose of analysis of the results obtained,Excel tool is used.
